---
title: Physical Measurements
---

The C3D specification expects all physical measurements to be one of two types, physical location information (for example, 3D locations or coordinates) referenced to a common origin, and numeric data (digital analog information).

The [3D Point](/glossary-of-terms#3d-point) format stores 3D location data as three X, Y, and Z locations, together with information about the sample – the accuracy (the average error or residual[^1]) of the 3D Point coordinate and optionally the camera contribution[^2] (recording the sensors or cameras used to generate the data).  Each recorded set of coordinates is referenced to a common origin within the data collection volume, making the analysis and processing of [3D data](/glossary-of-terms#3d-data) collected in different environments simple.

Each sample of numeric data stored with the 3D Point data can contain digitized analog information from sources such as Electromyography, Accelerometers, Goniometers, Load Cells, Inertial Measurement Units, and Force Plates etc.  These samples can be stored in synchronization with the 3D coordinate samples in the C3D file, so that it is easy to determine the numeric data values related to any 3D Point sample within the file.

[^1]: Residual - The [3D point](/glossary-of-terms#3d-point) residual is generated when the location of the associated 3D point recorded in the C3D file is calculated, and records the average accuracy distance of the point, calculated by the photogrammetry software and recorded in POINT:UNITS that documents the intersection of the rays used to generate the 3D point locations.  Low residual numbers indicate that the 3D point locations are more accurate when these numbers are derived from the measured 2D vector data used for the photogrammetry reconstruction and will always be absolute, non-zero values. Residual values of zero indicate that the point was not directly derived from measurements, i.e. the associated 3D coordinates were estimated by interpolation, affected by filtering, or simulated from a software model.  Negative residual values indicate that the stored 3D point is probably invalid.  It is recommended that all residual calculation methods are fully documented.
[^2]: Camera Contribution - The camera contribution value is also called camera mask.  The calculation of a [3D data](/glossary-of-terms#3d-data) location requires two or more observers (cameras or sensors).  When more than two observers contribute to the calculation of a 3D location, it is useful to record which of the observers contributed to the calculated measurement.  The C3D point record allows up to seven observers (generally, but not necessarily, cameras) to record whether or not their data was used to generate the [3D Point](/glossary-of-terms#3d-point) measurement. This is information specific to each data collection environment and can be very useful for debugging and quality control as it allows a user to identify the cameras (or observers) that produced information used by the 3D calculations that generate the 3D locations stored in the C3D file.
